README.md, before:

# AndroidTools
**A collection of software components for simplifying Android application development.**

## RecyclerView ##
Does creating a new RecyclerView excite you? Well, with these components you are going to be excited for sure! The benefits of having these classes in your project include:
* **Time Efficiency**
  - [x] No more ViewHolder classes required
  - [x] Fewer abstract methods, more open methods
  - [x] Convenience methods provided
* **Simpler Adapters**
  - [x] Easy Anonymous Classes
  - [x] Reduced Cognitive Load
  - [x] Separates VH initialization from binding
* **Flexibility**
  - [x] Supports various use cases
  - [x] Add ItemSelection with two-way communication  

### Getting Started ###
To get started using the ResponseAdapter 
1. Add an implementation of this class to your Fragment
    * `val adapter = object: ResponseAdapter(R.layout.vh_example) {}`
2. Override `getItemCount(): Int`
    * Can be a static number or the size of a list/array
    * If using a variable number or dataset, call `notifyDataSetChanged()` to update the views
3. Override `bindView(v: View, index: Int)`
    * Use the view parameter to access the layout with `v.findViewById<>()` or Kotlinx
      * Use `v.findViewById<>()` if view resources are in another module
    * Use the index parameter to retrieve the data
      * Use convenience methods: `getFromArray(index, array)` or `getFromList(index, list)`
      * These methods safely access the array or list, whether it is null or the index is out of bounds
 4. Override `respond(index: Int, action: String? = null)`
    * When ResponseVH `action(String?)` is called, ResponseAdapter `respond(Int, String?)` handles it
      * Use `val data = getFromArray(index, arrayList)` to obtain the data that was clicked
      
 ### Default Click Response Behaviour ###
  * By default a ClickListener is set on ResponseVH root view, which calls `vh.action(null)`
    * This triggers a call to `respond()` when the root view is clicked
    * To disable this behaviour, set the second constructor parameter of ResponseAdapter to false
  * To set your own listeners, override `initViewListeners(v: View, vh: ResponseVH)`
    * Inside each listener call `vh.action(String?)`
    * Provide a different string for each type of action you want to perform

### Optional Features ###

#### ListItemSelection ####
*This version was built for data that is retrieved on Fragment Start, and updated on Fragment Stop.*
*There is an alternate version in development for working with LiveData having sources that update during Fragment interaction* 

Add an instance of ListItemSelectionManager to your Fragment class. This component automatically notifies the ResponseAdapter when an item selection state changes.
1. Update the ResponseAdapter declaration
    * The ResponseAdapter must implement the ListItemSelectionManager.Listener interface.
      * This override method does not need to be written
2. Update ResponseAdapter viewListener and response methods to include item selection events
    * In the response handler, call the ListItemSelectionManager's selectIndex method
3. Interact with ListItemSelectionManager 
    * Call `selectIndex(index)` in `response(index, action)` if the desired action is to select or deselect views
    * If using optionsMenu or ActionMode to interact with selected items, get their indices with `getSelectedIndices()`
    * When ActionMode finishes or menu callback returns, call `clear()` to clear the data and update views
    * In `bindView()`, use `checkSelectionFor(index)` to determine if it is selected, and update view appearance
4. Update ListItemSelectionManager with lifecycle and data events
    * In onStart, pass the indices that are initially selected
    * In onStop
      * Call `getSelectedIndices()` and update your persisted data model with the selected data
      * Calling `clear()` will notify the Adapter unnnecessarily, just let it be destroyed with the Fragment
    * If your dataset indices change, you should call `clear()` before updating the dataset
    
## Context ##
The Context class is the gateway to system services and resources. Sometimes, certain functions involving Context will appear repeatedly throughout projects. This package includes some of these commonly used functions.
### NetworkObserver ###
Internet access management is a very common task in app development. The recommended Android API for Networks has changed over time, and not in a small way. The classes that were once given for this purpose have been entirely deprecated.

The NetworkObserver makes these changes less important to you, especially if you just want to know, yes or no, is there  internet access. The steps to implementing this component are:
1. Construct your NetworkObserver in a ViewModel
2. In every Activity that hosts a fragment that uses NetworkObserver:
   * Register the NetworkObserver in `onStart` by calling `registerWith(this)`
   * Unregister the NetworkObserver in `onStop` with `unregisterWith(this)`
3. Call `getLiveData()` and observe it in your fragments/lifecycleOwners
   * Alternatively, use `getCurrentValue()`
#### Network Constraints ####
If you have tasks that are better suited for specific types of networks, such as WiFi vs Mobile data, then you will need to override `buildNetworkRequest()` and use `NetworkRequest.Builder()` to specify the network constraints that will apply. Check the documentation on NetworkRequest for details on network constraints.

Commit message:

Deprecation of Kotlin Synthetic Dependent UI (#5)
* Deprecation warning for ResponseAdapter, ResponseVH, PagingResponseAdapter

* Update ContextHelp: Remove unused imports, added missing import

* Update README: RecyclerView information update.

README.md, after:

# AndroidTools
**A collection of software components for simplifying Android application development.**

## RecyclerView ##
RecyclerView is everywhere! With these components in your project, you will receive many benefits:
* **Time Efficiency**
  - [x] No more ViewHolder classes required
  - [x] Fewer abstract methods, more open methods
  - [x] Convenience methods provided
* **Simpler Adapters**
  - [x] Easy Anonymous Classes
  - [x] Reduced Cognitive Load
  - [x] Separates VH initialization from binding
* **Flexibility**
  - [x] Supports various use cases
  - [x] Add ItemSelection with two-way communication  

### Getting Started ###

**ResponseAdapter**
> __Note: ResponseAdapter is deprecated__ 
> 
> It was built for use with the Kotlin-android-extensions plugin which is deprecated. A replacement with similar API surface is in testing.

To use the ResponseAdapter 
1. Add an instance of this class to your Fragment
    * `val adapter = object: ResponseAdapter(R.layout.vh_example) {}`
2. Override `getItemCount(): Int`
    * Can be a static number or the size of a list/array
    * If using a variable number or dataset, call `notifyDataSetChanged()` to update the views
3. Override `bindView(v: View, index: Int)`
    * Use the view parameter to access the layout with `v.findViewById<>()` or Kotlinx
      * Use `v.findViewById<>()` if view resources are in another module
    * Use the index parameter to retrieve the data
      * Use convenience methods: `getFromArray(index, array)` or `getFromList(index, list)`
      * These methods safely access the array or list, whether it is null or the index is out of bounds
 4. Override `respond(index: Int, action: String? = null)`
    * When ResponseVH `action(String?)` is called, ResponseAdapter `respond(Int, String?)` handles it
      * Use `val data = getFromArray(index, arrayList)` to obtain the data that was clicked
      
 ### Default Click Response Behaviour ###
  * By default a ClickListener is set on ResponseVH root view, which calls `vh.action(null)`
    * This triggers a call to `respond()` when the root view is clicked
    * To disable this behaviour, set the second constructor parameter of ResponseAdapter to false
  * To set your own listeners, override `initViewListeners(v: View, vh: ResponseVH)`
    * Inside each listener call `vh.action(String?)`
    * Provide a different string for each type of action you want to perform

### Optional Features ###

#### ListItemSelection ####
*This version was built for data that is retrieved on Fragment Start, and updated on Fragment Stop.*
*There is an alternate version in development for working with LiveData having sources that update during Fragment interaction* 

Add an instance of ListItemSelectionManager to your Fragment class. This component automatically notifies the ResponseAdapter when an item selection state changes.
1. Update the ResponseAdapter declaration
    * The ResponseAdapter must implement the ListItemSelectionManager.Listener interface.
2. Update ResponseAdapter viewListener and response methods to include item selection events
    * In the response handler, call the ListItemSelectionManager's selectIndex method
3. Interact with ListItemSelectionManager 
    * Call `selectIndex(index)` in `response(index, action)` if the desired action is to select or deselect views
    * If using optionsMenu or ActionMode to interact with selected items, get their indices with `getSelectedIndices()`
    * When ActionMode finishes or menu callback returns, call `clear()` to clear the data and update views
    * In `bindView()`, use `checkSelectionFor(index)` to determine if it is selected, and update view appearance
4. Update ListItemSelectionManager with lifecycle and data events
    * In onStart, pass the indices that are initially selected
    * In onStop
      * Call `getSelectedIndices()` and update your persisted data model with the selected data
      * Calling `clear()` will notify the Adapter unnnecessarily, just let it be destroyed with the Fragment
    * If your dataset indices change, you should call `clear()` before updating the dataset
    
## Context ##
The Context class is the gateway to system services and resources. Sometimes, certain functions involving Context will appear repeatedly throughout projects. This package includes some of these commonly used functions.
### NetworkObserver ###
Internet access management is a very common task in app development. The recommended Android API for Networks has changed over time, and not in a small way. The classes that were once given for this purpose have been entirely deprecated.

The NetworkObserver makes these changes less important to you, especially if you just want to know, yes or no, is there  internet access. The steps to implementing this component are:
1. Construct your NetworkObserver in a ViewModel
2. In every Activity that hosts a fragment that uses NetworkObserver:
   * Register the NetworkObserver in `onStart` by calling `registerWith(this)`
   * Unregister the NetworkObserver in `onStop` with `unregisterWith(this)`
3. Call `getLiveData()` and observe it in your fragments/lifecycleOwners
   * Alternatively, use `getCurrentValue()`
#### Network Constraints ####
If you have tasks that are better suited for specific types of networks, such as WiFi vs Mobile data, then you will need to override `buildNetworkRequest()` and use `NetworkRequest.Builder()` to specify the network constraints that will apply. Check the documentation on NetworkRequest for details on network constraints.
